Between Two Fires is a horror story that uses literary devices to advance the horrific atmosphere and to advance it's themes of higher powers and sanctity. 

The most obvious example of this is the motif of divine abandonment present all the way throughout the book. The constant repetition of "god abandoned us" from Thomas, the protagonist, is pretty obvious. Thomas is angry at God, he resents God for not helping them, for "making" him do all the things he did to survive. With the priest, the motif is used more of a quiet defeat. The priests' faith through the story is revealed to be somewhat shaken, and the priest struggles with his alcoholism, not even admitting it as a problem at first. The "ideal" priest, as we are told once is one who lets go of everything earthly and dedicates themselves only to their faith. The priest, as soon as he heard that joked something along the lines of "I hope God in his mercy still lets me have some wine". His ongoing struggle with wine throughout the story is part of the motif because he's loosing his faith in the God above.

There's an interesting plot point among the first chapters of the story. After the group sets off to France, during their travels they encounter a big city that seems to be free of the plague, the sacred girl doesn't like it, but Thomas and the Priest still go in. It turns out big city is actually evil city, disguised as nice city, so weird things start happening. The king there says to them that there is actually no plague in the city because the music keeps it away, so, he abuses musicians into always playing music for him. This to me seems like a symbolism for something. The whole kingdom is some sort of illusion made by demons, so they are on the same side of the plague they are "keeping away", this facade of comfort and music is just for Thomas and the priest. What this is trying to say becomes clear right after. The king throughout the feast they are both invited to constantly tries to get them, specifically the priest to eat literal monkey brains. I think the music "keeping the plague away" but not really is symbolism for general luxury and worldly pleasures, while the monkey brain represents a step further, luxury and worldly pleasures that betray both yourself and harms others.

The whole setting of horror serves to advance this motif of God having abandoned the world. From the beginning of the story, we are introduced to Thomas in a brutal gang of mercenaries, implying what he had to do to survive, leading us to assume that most of the world is like this, the remaining people are mercenaries and savages. Constantly throughout the story we are told either: "The people in this town all died" or "the people in this town are haunted by this unimaginably horrific demon" The only place that seemed like a safe-haven, that seemed safe from the plague, turned out to be an illusion caused by demons. We are constantly described horrible smells coming from who knows where because there are so many bodies everywhere. The tone of the story similarly is very melancholic. Thomas especially misses the old world before he was kicked out of it for no good reason. There's a tone of not only pity, but regret. Thomas was kicked out and his life now is pretty bad compared to it, but also, he briefly became a horrific, brutal mercenary, and now he regrets all he did when he was like that. This is a pretty contrasting tone to how the girl is written. 

The girl is shown to be something different not only by the contrasting tone she's written in, but also by how the plot moves around her. The tone when she's around is different, she is naive and wants to help everyone, and is written like a kid, but at the same time she's also written like she always knows what to do somehow. She's sacred somehow and we can tell by how she's described, how she speaks vaguely but always leads the group to the right place. Plot-wise she's also different, we don't know much about her past, and the group pretty much follows what she wants to do. Also, she's visited by angels once in a while to guide her. She comes across magic artifacts seemingly out of nowhere, like that key they got from a scammer, and overall through plot the idea that she's this world's last hope is advanced.

In conclusion, I think you used symbolism well to advance the motif that god abandoned the world, then contrasting it with the tone the girl is written with to create a feeling of mystery and cautious hope.
